INNER JOIN

write a sql query to display records that have matching values in both tables.
select employes.eid,employes.eName,Project.Project_name
from employes
inner join Project
on employes.eid=Project.pid;

LEFT JOIN

write a sql query to display all  records from employes table that have matching values in Project tables in ascending order by column eName.
select e.eid,e.eName,p.Project_name
from employes e
left join Project p
on e.eid=p.pid
order by e.eName;

RIGHT JOIN


write a sql query to display all  records from Projcet table that have matching values in employes tables in ascending order by column eName.
select e.eid,e.eName,p.Project_name
from employes e
right join Project p
on e.eid=p.pid
order by e.eName;

CROSS JOIN 
Write a query to perform the cross join operation considering the employes table as the left table and the Project table as the right table.
select * from employes cross join Project
order by eid;

GROUP BY
1)write a query to get the count of employes with respect to Gender.
select Gender,count(Gender)
from employes
group by Gender;

2)write a query to get the count of employes with respect to joining date.
select Date_of_joining as joining,count(Date_of_joining)
from employes
group by Date_of_joining;

Using Having Clause
1)write a query to get the count of employes with respect to gender whose countis greater than 4.
select Gender,count(Gender)
from employes
group by Gender
having count(Gender)>4;

Using ORDER BY
1)Select all records from the employes table, sort the result alphabetically by the column Salary.
select * from employes
order by Salary;

2)Write a query from the employes table,sort the result by column eid with limitof 2.
select eid,eName,Salary,Gender 
from employes
order by eid
limit 2; 

UNION and UNION ALL
1)write SQL query returns the  cities (only distinct values) from both the "Customers" and the "Suppliers" table.
select City from Customers
UNION
select City from Suppliers;

2)write SQL query returns the cities (duplicate values also) from both the "Customers" and the "Suppliers" table.
select City from Customers
UNION ALL
select City from Suppliers;
